+++
title = "Terms of Reference: Annex 1: Definition of Terms"
+++

Annex 1: Definition of Terms
----------------------------

There are several terms used to refer to the broad issues that the
German Reproducibility Network aims to address, and these are often used
interchangeably. Our focus is on ensuring that Germany produces robust,
rigorous research. Below we list various terms and definitions that are
widely used and define which meaning is intended by each word within the
context of the GRN. We utilize definitions introduced by Hale et al.
(2019) (i.e., rigor, transparency and open communication,
accountability) and Goodman et al. (2016) (i.e., results
reproducibility, methods reproducibility and inferential
reproducibility) , but this is not to suggest that these are the only or
"correct" definitions.

**Rigor**, in line with prevailing disciplinary norms and standards: in
performing research and using appropriate methods; in adhering to an
agreed protocol where appropriate; in drawing interpretations and
conclusions from the research; and in communicating the results.

**Transparency and open communication** in declaring potential competing
interests; in the reporting of research data collection methods; in the
analysis and interpretation of data; in making research findings widely
available, which includes publishing or otherwise sharing negative or
null results to recognise their value as part of the research process;
and in presenting the work to other researchers and to the public.

**Accountability** of funders, employers and researchers to collectively
create a research environment where individuals and organisations are
empowered and enabled to own the research process. Those engaged with
research must also ensure that individuals and organisations are held to
account when behaviour falls short of the standards set by
this concordat.

Following Goodman and colleagues we understand reproducibility as
consisting of 3 types: methods reproducibility, results reproducibility,
and inferential reproducibility.

**Results Reproducibility** refers to obtaining the same results from
the conduct of an independent study whose methods are as closely matched
to the original as possible or a re-analysis of the original data set.

**Methods Reproducibility** refers to the provision of enough detail
about study procedures and data so the same procedures could, in
principle or actuality, be exactly repeated.

**Inferential Reproducibility** refers to the drawing of qualitatively
similar conclusions from either an independent replication of a study or
a re-analysis of the original study.

**References**

Goodman, S. N., Fanelli, D., & Ioannidis, J. P. (2016). What does
research reproducibility mean?. *Science translational medicine*,
*8*(341), 341ps12-341ps12.

Hale, C., Arrowsmith, J., Bayes, S., Bodmer, H., Garman, A., Hubbard,
P., ... Sooben, P. (2012). The concordat to support research integrity.
Universities UK

National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. (2019).
Reproducibility and replicability in science. National Academies Press.
