+++
title = "Terms of Reference: Annex 3: Role Descriptions"
+++

Annex 3: Model Role Description -- Academic Coordinator for Research Improvement
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The *Academic Coordinator for Research Improvement* will take the
coordination for the following activities to enhance a positive culture
of research integrity and improvement across all Faculties.

1.  Ensure the availability of an integrated training and development
    programme for staff and students at all stages of their research
    career, to be delivered in collaboration with colleagues from
    doctoral training entities, staff development, human resources,
    the research governance team and educational course coordinators.

    This training will make use of available e-learning and harness current training provisions, with a view to offering a variety of development opportunities including areas highlighted in the recent Royal Society 'Integrity in Practice' toolkit (see below).
    -   Creating a dialogue around research improvement and research culture, including promoting the adoption of open research practices and other relevant initiatives, and embedding this into the institutional culture
    -   Creating informal channels to openly discuss research improvement (e.g., open research working groups, journal clubs); and supporting GRN Reproducibility Initiatives to deliver these.
    -   Working with senior colleagues to establish, review and improve (on an ongoing basis) institutional Key Performance Indicators relating to research practice, and seeking to establish audit systems to monitor performance
    -   Scoping the availability of learning materials related to improving research practice, identifying areas where such materials do not exist, with a view to working, internally or externally, to facilitate the production of such materials
    -   Constructing an environment that nurtures ongoing training including training in specialist areas (e.g., human clinical trials, Human Tissue Act awareness, research that involves animals) where appropriate.
    -   Supporting the creation and maintenance of infrastructure and support to ensure appropriate software and data management and data analysis, including institutional repositories, training in data and software carpentry, etc.

2.  Support policy framework development especially linking to national activity in this area, including working closely with the GRN and representing the institution at GRN meetings.

3.  Ensuring dedicated expert academic and research professional support and mentoring at all career stages, including support for GRN *Reproducibility Initiatives* and promotion of local and national GRN and GRN-supported activities.

[[https://royalsociety.org/\~/media/policy/projects/research-culture-images/integrity-in-practice-september-2018.pdf?la=en-GB]{.ul}](https://royalsociety.org/~/media/policy/projects/research-culture-images/integrity-in-practice-september-2018.pdf?la=en-GB)

Annex 4: Model Role Description -- Reproducibility Initiative Speaker
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The role of the GRN *Reproducibility Initiative Speaker* is to build an
informal group of multidisciplinary researchers at all career stages
interested in issues of research reproducibility and improvement. This
includes facilitating communication on reproducibility-related issues
between teams within the institution, and linking the institution to the
wider GRN community, partly through engagement in GRN activities and
partly through communication with the GRN *Steering Group*.

The *Reproducibility Initiative Speaker* at each institution should be
motivated towards improving reproducibility and open research within
their institution. In order to achieve this, they should have a good
level of understanding (or a willingness to learn) about the
institution's processes and how various teams within the institution
work and interact. Where an institution is a formal member of GRN, the
*Reproducibility Initiative Speaker* will work closely with the
*Academic Coordinator for Research Improvement*.

As the structure and function of different *Reproducibility Initiatives*
is likely to differ considerably between institutions, activities
performed by the *Reproducibility Initiative* *Speaker* will be
context-dependent. However, specific responsibilities may include:

-   Disseminating information from GRN to its members on events, new
    > initiatives, etc.

-   Gathering information and views from *Reproducibility Initiative*
    > members to feed back to GRN

-   Sending regular updates to the GRN Steering Group with any news from
    > the *Reproducibility Initiative*

-   Initiating or coordinating initiatives within the institution to
    > promote reproducibility

-   Initiating or coordinating a Journal Club

-   Initiating or coordinating an Open Research Working Group

-   Communicating regularly (either via meetings, email or
    > teleconference) with other GRN representatives and *Initiative
    > Speakers* to share knowledge on what works/doesn't work at other
    > GRN-affiliated institutions

-   Maintaining dialogue with other key groups within their institution
    > that may promote Open Research (e.g., *Academic Coordinator for
    > Research Improvement*, Library Services, Research Governance
    > Teams, Data Repository Teams,)

Annex 5: Model Role Description -- Academic Society Coordinator for Research Quality
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The role of the *Academic Society Coordinators for Research Quality* is
to coordinate and catalyze activities of the respective Academic Society
that are geared towards increasing the implementation of open and
transparent scientific practices that enhance the reproducibility of
research findings in the respective scientific discipline. This may
involve

1.  developing standards for reproducible research in line with the aims
    > of the GRN,

2.  ensuring the availability of respective training and development
    > programmes for scientists at all career stages, as well as expert
    > mentoring and support, as well as

3.  supporting the development of policy frameworks that support open,
    > transparent and reproducible research, including working closely
    > with the GRN and the de-central GRN Reproducibility Initiatives,
    > where appropriate.

The Academic Societies Coordinator is expected to closely collaborate
with (or even be part of) the steering committee of the respective
society. The specific activities of the Academic Society Coordinators
may vary widely between societies, depending on the specific discipline
and on the current status of open science activities in the respective
research field.

Annex 6: Stakeholder Engagement Group
-------------------------------------

Stakeholders (e.g., funders, publishers, *Academic Societies*) who
support GRN (either directly or via access to resources) currently form
the *Stakeholder Engagement Group*. This ensures that GRN activity is
aligned with the strategy and activity of the stakeholders, and allows
the exchange of ideas.

The range of potential stakeholders is quite diverse, including funders
(both governmental and charity), non-profit organisations that are part
of the academic environment, non-profit organisations that are part of
the wider research environment and for-profit organisations. The funders
of GRN will be listed on our website.

Our structure allows for two types of *Stakeholder Engagement Group*
membership -- full membership for organisations that are part of the
academic environment (funders, *Academic Societies*, professional
organisations), and affiliate membership for organisations that are part
of the wider research environment (e.g., publishers).

Full members provide direct financial support or support in kind GRN,
whilst affiliate members only provide support in kind. All members are
required to agree to our mission and values. We review our affiliate
members annually to ensure their activities remain aligned with our
mission and values.

Full members are listed on the GRN website, with their logos displayed
and any financial contribution noted. Affiliate members are listed on
the website, but their logos are not be displayed. Our website also
includes a statement that we do not take financial contributions from
affiliate members.

The relationship between the *Stakeholder Engagement Group* and GRN
provides stakeholders with a mechanism for obtaining feedback on new
initiatives from the research community. The GRN *Steering Group* will
determine whether a current or potential stakeholder should be a full or
affiliate member of the *Stakeholder Engagement Group*.

Annex 7: Model Role Description -- Academic Society Coordinator for Research Improvement
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Academic Societies are associations devoted to the advancement of
science in their respective disciplines. The role of the GRN *Academic
Society Coordinator for Research Improvement* is to ensure communication
with the *Steering Group* .....

Annex 8: Role Definitions and German Translation
------------------------------------------------

  **Groups within GRN**          **Represented by \...**                                 **Deutsch**                                                              **repr√§sentiert durch**
  ------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------------------------------------------------
  Steering Group                 Members of \...                                         Steuerungsgruppe                                                         Mitglieder der \...
  Reproducibility Initiatives    Initiative Speaker                                      Reproducibility Initiatives                                              Sprecher/in der Initiative
  Research Institutions          Academic Coordinator for Research Improvement           Forschungsinstitutionen                                                  Wissenschaftliche/r Koordinator/in f√ºr Forschungsqualit√§t
  Academic Societies             Academic Society Coordinator for Research Improvement   wissenschaftl. Fachgesellschaft                                          Koordinator/in f√ºr Forschungsqualit√§t
  Stakeholders                   Representative                                          forschungsbezogene Interessengruppen (im Folgenden "Stakeholder") \...   Repr√§sentant/in
  Stakeholder Engagement Group                                                           Stakeholder-Dialoggruppe
